ABSTRACT:
A chatbot is a computer software able to interact with humans using a natural language. They usually rely on machine learning, especially
on NLP. Apple’s Siri, Amazon’s Alexa, Google Assistant, and Microsoft’s Cortana are some well-known examples of software able to process
natural languages. Natural language processing (NLP) is one of the most promising fields of artificial intelligence that uses natural 
languages to enable human interactions with machines. Chatter Bot is a Python library designed to make it easy to create software that 
can engage in conversation. An untrained instance of Chatter Bot starts off with no knowledge of how to communicate. Each time a user 
enters a statement, the library saves the text that they entered and the text that the statement was in response to. As Chatter Bot 
receives more input the number of responses that it can reply and the accuracy of each response in relation to the input statement 
increase. The program selects the closest matching response by searching for the closest matching known statement that matches the input,
it then chooses a response from the selection of known responses to that statement.


INTRODUCTION TO PROJECT:
The College bot project is built using artificial algorithms that analyses user’s queries and understand user’s message. This system is 
a simple Python 3.7(64 BIT) IDLE based which provides answer to the query of the student. Students just have to query through the bot 
which is used for chatting. Students can chat using the question provided to it. The System uses built in artificial intelligence to
answer the query. The answers are appropriate what the user queries. The User can query any college related activities through the system
. The user does not have to personally go to the college for enquiry. The System analyses the question and then answers to the user. The
system answers to the query as if it is answered by the person. With the help of artificial intelligence, the system answers the query
asked by the students. The system replies using an effective as if real person is chatting at back end. This system helps the student to
be updated about the college activities.

Advantages:
1.	User does not have to go personally to college office for the enquiry.
2.	This application saves time for the student as well as teaching and non-teaching staffs.

Disadvantages:
1.	This system requires Internet Connection.
2.	If many users enquire at same time, response will be slow.

LITERATURE REVIEW:
It is a Language Independent Chat Bot, the language independent design of Chatter Bot allows it to be trained to speak any language.
Additionally, the machine-learning nature of Chatter Bot allows an agent instance to improve its own knowledge of possible responses as
it interacts with humans and other sources of informative data. As students, we require many types of information regarding our college
and university during our course. Sometimes getting this information is rather cumbersome and lengthy. Like getting information regarding
our fees structure or the due fees remaining is a very lengthy process we have to go to administration building and find the correct 
window and then look for a no dues form then fill it with correct data and then submit it to the appropriate person and then that person
will tell us our due fees. This is all long, hectic and unnecessary. We live in an age of computer science, where automation and simple 
procedures are easy to achieve. So why have this long and unnecessary process to get this trivial information. We as a computer science 
student are always looking forward to solve the problems around us using the technology that we learn and how to implement them to 
achieve ease of usage in real life. This is where we thought of using an intelligent chat bot delivering these information’s. Think about
an application, where all you have to do is ask. You want fees status of a student, just ask the chatbot about is it clear or not it will
tell you. No need to get into lengthy and hectic procedure. You want to know the process of filling the university exam form, no problem
our bot will tell you the steps. It can also solve the dilemma when a student is about to join the college. He/she may want to enquire
about fee structure of various colleges and know their admission procedure. Now in the current system it can be a long process. You would
have to go to various college sites and then check it. Then our chatbot can do it for you in seconds all you will have to do is to ask 
it. 

PROPOSED METHODOLOGY:

Now at first, we have to install the library Chatter Bot for now. I recommend creating and using a new Python virtual environment for 
this purpose. Execute the following commands in your Python terminal/Command Prompt:

pip install chatterbot
pip install –ignore-installed PyYAML
pip install chatterbot_corpus
pip install spacy
You can also try upgrading them:
pip install --upgrade chatterbot_corpus
pip install --upgrade chatterbot
Now we’ll need to import two classes for this purpose: 
Chat Bot from chatterbot and ListTrainer from chatterbot.trainers:
from chatterbot import ChatBot
from chatterbot.trainers import ListTrainer
We’re now prepared to create and train our Chatbot.
*SAMPLE*:
So, we have to provide responses. We do that by specifying the lists of strings later used to train the bot and find the best match for
each question. This is what I want our bot to learn:
conversation=[
   	 "Hello",
"Hi Sir I am your BOT Assistant, I Welcome you to Lovely Professional University!",
    	"Tell me about LPU",
  "Lovely Professional University is a private university situated in Phagwara, Punjab, India. The university was established in 2005 by Lovely International Trust, under The Lovely Professional University Act, 2005 and started operation in 2006",
   	 ]
Next, We can create and train the bot by creating an instance of ListTrainer and supplying it with the lists of strings:
trainer = ListTrainer(chatbot)
trainer.train(conversation)
The bot should now be trained and ready to communicate.
CODE USED:
from chatterbot import ChatBot
from chatterbot.trainers import ListTrainer

conversation=[
    "Hello",
 "Hi Sir I am your BOT Assistant, I Welcome you to Lovely Professional University!",
    "Tell me about LPU",
"Lovely Professional University is a private university situated in Phagwara, Punjab, India. The university was established in 2005 by Lovely International Trust, under The Lovely Professional University Act, 2005 and started operation in 2006",
    "Can I get direct admission in LPU?",
    "Hey, yes you can get direct admission in LPU without the NEST. NEST (National Entrance & Scholarship Test) is totally based on the scholarship criteria. There is a lot of advantages of appearing for LPU- NEST, including attractive scholarship.",
    "How can I get Scholarship in LPU?",
    "1,20,000/- per year from some outer agency , then the maximum entitlement for scholarship offered by LPU for such student shall be Rs. 62,000/- per year, obtained by subtracting Scholarship from Outer agency i.e. 1,20,000/- from total fee of the programme i.e. Rs. 1,82,000/- (1,39,000/- + 43000/- = 1,82,000/- ).",
    "Tell me about fees structure",
    "All the annexure is attached on our website please visit http://www.lpu.in",
    "Thankyou",
    "Thankyou for visiting LPU",
    ]

chatbot=ChatBot('LPU_BOT')

trainer = ListTrainer(chatbot)
trainer.train(conversation)

while True:
    userInput=input("You:")
    if userInput.strip()=='Bye' or userInput.strip()=='bye':
        print('ChatBot: Bye Have a nice day sir')
        break;
    else:
        response=chatbot.get_response(userInput)
        print('Chatbot:',response)





Communicating with a Bot:
You can communicate with your bot using its chatbot .get_response(). Here’s an example of how that might look like:
 
N.B: Its knowledge is limited to the stuff similar to what it has learned.


RESULT AND DISCUSSION:

It is often impossible to get all the data on a single interface without the complications of going through multiple forms and windows.
The college chat bot aims to remove this difficulty by providing a common and user-friendly interface to solve queries of college student
s and teachers. The purpose of a chat bot system is to simulate a human conversation. Its architecture integrates a language model and 
computational algorithm to emulate information online communication between a human and a computer using natural language. The college 
student and employees can freely upload their queries. The chat bot provides fast and efficient search for answers to the queries and 
gets the relevant links to their question. A background research took place, which included an overview of the conversation procedure 
and tries to find out the relevant keywords related to that query to provide the proper link. The database storage includes information
about questions, answers, keywords, and logs. We have also developed an interface.


CONCLUSION:

The Main Objective of the project is to develop and algorithm that will be used to identify answers related to users submitted questions.
The need is to train the chatbot where all the related data will be stored. The algorithm developed will one part for simple user. A 
background research took place, which included an overview of the conversation procedure and the relevant chat bot available. A database
will be developed, which will store information about queries and correctly fulfil its purpose within a short time period. Our result 
show that the total time required to perform all the task, including visit to the college, standing in queue, and enquiry are reduced 
with the help of our system.
